Q1. Is it safe to be active before pregnancy?
Yes. Being active before pregnancy has many physical and mental health benefits. It is safe to keep up or start your regular activity and exercise routine before getting pregnant, as long as you feel comfortable. There are no exercises that you should avoid while you are trying to get pregnant. Speak to your GP if you are unsure, worried, or if intense physical activity may have caused your periods to stop.

Q2. What are the benefits of being active before pregnancy?
Being active before pregnancy helps you get pregnant quicker, helps to maintain or achieve a healthy weight, sets the foundation for an active lifestyle during and after pregnancy, reduces risks of pregnancy and birth complications, and is great for your mental health.

Q3. Is it safe to be active during fertility treatment?
Yes. Being active offers many physical and psychological health benefits for women throughout their fertility treatment journey. Fertility treatment can be a difficult time and is associated with high levels of stress, anxiety, and depression so it is important to find something that makes you feel good. If you are already active at a moderate intensity and frequency, you can continue throughout your treatment cycle as long as you feel comfortable. It is important to listen to your body as all women have different experiences during fertility treatment. During stimulation some women feel bloated and have difficulty moving their bodies, the injection sites may become sore, or they have less energy. Others may feel no differences.

Q4. What are the benefits of being active during fertility treatment?
Being active during fertility treatment can improve your chances of conception, helps to maintain or achieve a healthy weight, sets the foundation for an active lifestyle during and after pregnancy, increases energy levels, helps manage feelings of bloating, reduces risks of pregnancy and birth complications, is great for your mental health, and helps manage stress, anxiety and depressive symptoms.

Q5. How do I know what intensity my activity is?
Moderate intensity physical activity is any movement that makes you breathe faster, your heart beat faster, and your body feel warmer. During this time you will still be able to talk but not sing. Vigorous intensity physical activity makes you breathe hard and fast. During this time you will only be able to say a few words before pausing for a breath.

Q6. What does the research say about being active during fertility treatment?
Research studies show mixed findings about the effects of being physically active during fertility treatment. Some research suggests that being active can negatively impact fertility treatment outcomes if women are inactive or extremely active. Most women are already active at a moderate intensity and frequency, and results suggest this can positively impact fertility treatment outcomes. Some studies found no difference, so activity is encouraged because of the many wider associated benefits.

Q7. Are there any risks to being active during fertility treatment?
During the stimulation phase, it is recommended that women do not engage in heavy lifting and twisting because of the risk of ovarian torsion. Ovarian torsion is when the ovary, and sometimes the fallopian tube, twist on the tissues that support them and stops the blood flow. Conditions which may increase the risk include ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS), endometriosis, and ovarian cysts. Undergoing fertility treatment increases the risk due to the size of the ovaries. However, this most commonly occurs following egg retrieval and in only 0.024 to 0.2 percent of cases. There are even fewer cases during the time between trigger shot and before retrieval. If you have any concerns, speak to a healthcare professional.
