Q1. I am a partner, family member or friend of a pregnant or postnatal woman. How can I help her be more active?
If the pregnant or postnatal woman in your life is finding it hard to be active, there are things you can do to help. Listen to her concerns, encourage her, pitch in with practical help, do activities together, stay informed about physical activity guidelines, and validate her efforts without judgment.

Q2. How can I listen and support a pregnant or postnatal woman who is struggling to be active?
Listen to her concerns and ask what you can do to be supportive. Find out her reasons for not being active. She may feel scared that she may harm her baby, overwhelmed, embarrassed, or simply feel she does not have the time. Sometimes she may not want solutions — a listening ear and some reassurance might be all she needs.

Q3. How can I encourage a pregnant or postnatal woman to be more active?
Encourage her to connect with and seek out the support of other active mothers. Sharing experiences with those in a similar situation can be very valuable and widens her support network. If you think she could benefit from mental health support, encourage her to take action, share concerns, or seek professional help.

Q4. What practical things can I do to help a pregnant or postnatal woman be more active?
Little things go a long way. Offer to cook dinner, pick up shopping, take the kids out for the day, bring round a meal, or offer childcare. These practical contributions can make all the difference, especially if it is difficult for her to make time to be active.

Q5. How can we be active together?
Consider ways you can be active together. Pick a time of day where you can both be active, take the dog out for a walk, meet at the local leisure centre after work, or take a walk to the coffee shop or a stroll in the park. Doing something together will not just improve her mental and physical health, but yours too.

Q6. How can I stay informed to better support a pregnant or postnatal woman?
There are many misconceptions and old wives tales associated with being active during pregnancy and the postnatal period. Find out what the physical activity guidelines are and discuss these with your loved one. If appropriate, go with her to ante or postnatal visits and ask questions about any issues you are unclear about.

Q7. How should I talk to a pregnant or postnatal woman about her activity and body?
Recognise her efforts without judgment. Remember that any amount of physical activity is better than none. Regularly remind her that you love her no matter what shape or size. Be kind and patient as pregnancy brings about significant changes. Do not put pressure on her to lose weight or get back into shape. Her body has done an amazing thing by growing a human being.

Q8. Where can I find more information to support a pregnant or postnatal woman?
Visit activepregnancyfoundation.org/support-network for tips for dads, partners, family, friends, carers and community leaders. You can also visit activepregnancyfoundation.org for general resources and guidance on physical activity during pregnancy and after childbirth.
