Q1. Is it safe to be active after childbirth?
Yes. There is no evidence that being active after childbirth is harmful to healthy women. Being active is also safe for those who breastfeed their baby. Depending on your delivery, listen to your body and start gently. It is important not to do too much too soon.

Q2. When can I start being active after childbirth?
Reintroduction of physical activity after childbirth should be gradual and individualised. Give your body time to heal and prioritise rest and recovery in the early weeks. If you have had a straightforward birth, you can start gentle exercises as soon as you feel up to it. If you have had a caesarean or any surgical intervention and complications, your recovery time will be longer.

Q3. What activities can I start with after a straightforward birth?
After a straightforward birth you can try walking, gentle stretches, deep stomach and pelvic floor exercises, and taking the stairs as soon as you feel up to it.

Q4. How much activity is recommended after childbirth?
Aim to gradually build back up to accumulating 150 minutes of moderate intensity physical activity throughout the week. You do not need to do it all at once and every activity counts. Build back up to muscle strength and balance activities twice per week, for example pushing the pram uphill, taking the stairs, carrying shopping bags, exercises with your baby, and postnatal yoga.

Q5. What does moderate intensity activity mean after childbirth?
Moderate intensity activity involves any activity that makes you breathe faster whilst still being able to hold a conversation. This level of activity is safe and beneficial for postnatal recovery.

Q6. What are the benefits of being active after childbirth?
Being active after childbirth reduces depression and worries, improves mood, improves fitness, helps to control weight and return to pre-pregnancy weight, improves sleep, and improves tummy muscle tone and strength.

Q7. What should I do if I was active during pregnancy?
If you were active during pregnancy, restart gradually and build up to moderate intensity physical activity before progressing to higher intensity activities.

Q8. What if I was not active during pregnancy or before?
If you were not active before, start gradually now and slowly build up to moderate intensity physical activity. Every small amount of activity counts and starting gradually is the right approach.

Q9. When is activity not recommended after childbirth?
With any signs and symptoms of pelvic floor and or abdominal wall dysfunction, more intense activities should not resume. Referral to a specialist pelvic health physiotherapist is recommended if you experience these symptoms.

Q10. What is the 6 to 8 week postnatal check?
The 6 to 8 week postnatal check is a good time to discuss physical activity with your healthcare team. Around this time and depending on how you feel, activities can gradually be reintroduced.

Q11. Is it safe to be active while breastfeeding?
Yes. Being active is safe for those who breastfeed their baby. There is no evidence that moderate physical activity affects breastfeeding or breast milk quality.

Q12. Any safety messages for being active after childbirth?
Remember if you experience any signs or symptoms of pelvic floor and or abdominal wall dysfunction, seek advice from a healthcare professional. Be active in your own way as not every woman is the same. Being active with your baby and others is a great way to socialise and incorporate physical activity into your lifestyle.

Q13. Where can I find more information about being active after childbirth?
Visit activepregnancyfoundation.org/findyouractive for activity ideas and inspiration. Visit activepregnancyfoundation.org/thismummoves for the This Mum Moves programme. The information is based on guidance provided by the UK Chief Medical Officers 2019.
