Q1. Is it safe to be active during pregnancy?
Yes. There is no evidence that being active during pregnancy is harmful to healthy women or their babies. Listen to your body and adapt. If it feels pleasant keep going. If it is uncomfortable, stop and seek advice. If you are unsure, seek advice from your midwife, health visitor or other healthcare professional.

Q2. Can I continue exercise during pregnancy if I am already active?
Yes. If you are healthy, have an uncomplicated pregnancy, and are already active, it is safe to continue with physical activities. Being active can improve your physical and mental health. Keep going and adapt as needed.

Q3. Can I start exercising during pregnancy if I am new to activity?
Yes. If you are healthy, have an uncomplicated pregnancy, and are new to activity, starting gradually and building up your activity levels means you can improve your physical and mental health. Start with something simple like walking.

Q4. How much activity is recommended during pregnancy?
Aim to accumulate 150 minutes of moderate intensity physical activity throughout the week. You do not need to do it all at once — every activity counts. Include strength and balance activities twice per week, for example walking uphill, taking the stairs, carrying shopping bags, and pregnancy yoga.

Q5. What does moderate intensity activity mean during pregnancy?
Moderate intensity activity involves any activity that makes you breathe faster whilst still being able to hold a conversation. If you can talk but not sing, you are working at the right level.

Q6. What are the benefits of being active during pregnancy?
Being active during pregnancy helps to reduce high blood pressure, helps to prevent diabetes of pregnancy, helps to control weight gain, improves fitness, improves sleep, and improves mood.

Q7. What activities can I try during pregnancy?
Good activities during pregnancy include walking, swimming, exercise classes, pregnancy yoga, Pilates or Tai Chi, gardening, housework, active travel, taking the stairs, and playing with family and friends. For more ideas visit activepregnancyfoundation.org/findyouractive.

Q8. Are there any safety messages I should know about being active during pregnancy?
Yes. Listen to your body and adapt. If it feels pleasant keep going, if it is uncomfortable stop and seek advice. Avoid activities with an increased risk of injury through physical contact or falling. Remember not to bump the bump. If you are unsure, seek advice from your midwife, health visitor or other healthcare professional.

Q9. Where can I find more information about being active during pregnancy?
Visit activepregnancyfoundation.org/thismummoves for the This Mum Moves programme and activepregnancyfoundation.org/findyouractive for activity ideas and inspiration. The information is based on guidance provided by the UK Chief Medical Officers 2019.
